---
layout: post
title: i'm in your walls (queer your shelf day 2)
--- 

<b>Queer as folklore by Sacha Coward</b> and <b>100 Queer Poems</b>, edited by Andrew McMillan (whom I had the honor to work with for my short stories collection) and Mary Jean Chan (whom I had not worked with, but had read during my first dabble into poetry five years ago, but I digress.)
are what i reach for when i need a point of reference. both books are riddled with colorful sticky notes; flaps of post notes rippling from the edge of the books. 

both books got the knack of flipping thing on its head. in 100 Queer Poems, McMillan and Jean Chan opt to "categorize" the anthology by what that poetry does rather than acting like a authoritative council of gay poet historians. i can go into details of what this means, but imagine a time capsule. there are politics of things that are included and things that are left out. (although to appear in this anthology, one must have published in the UK.)
Coward, on the other hand, was doing Walterian (Benjaminion? That sounds a bit banana.) excavation in Queer as Folklore, drilling deep into big bad wolves, dirty demons, R2D2, and the "strata" surrounding them. it was not a good habit, but i like to read these books a bit like a fortune cookie: randomly breaking one apart for revelation. i still haven't finished them to this day. that's why i got chills when cracking open Queer as Folklore for this writing and the dedication says, "this book is dedicated to every person who has ever walked around a museum and wondered if they belong there."

### awards: 
- best gay books to put on your shelf so that your non-English speaking parents don't not know you are gay before you are ready to tell them award
- "i can't believe i didn't know that!" award

### suitable for: 
- DnD players
- Monster fuckers
- People who find Raphael from Baldur's Gate 3 a hot loser.
