---
layout: post
title: i haunt it back (queer your shelf day 3)
--- 

this will be a tad more serious one. 

while writing a short piece for yesterday, i found myself wanting to talk about <b>Surge by Jay Bernard</b> and what surrounded the discovery of this poetry collection for me. 

like many books in my life, Bernard's collection came to me as an assigned reading for a poetry class. and like a poetry class, we read it from front to back. AND like any classes, i loathed having to do the work when i can only sit with a book for only a week, squeezed between two more courseworks i had to take. 

it ended up becoming one of my favourite collections, probably of all time. it wove an original blend between archival research, individual memory, and collective memory. i probably won't go into every single poem here; taking them off the context is already too large for the scope of these micro blogs. Instead let's look at <b>Pride</b> not because it is about a pride parade, but because the aforementioned layers are the skeleton of this poem.  

the poem opened with the sunny scene of the narrator's first pride parade: a constant overlap of an individual and a collective one. anyone who have been to a pride parade (or really any queer collective) remembered their fist time, and Bernard nailed the baby gay energy and that innocent tinge of lust when we spot another hot queer folx, even more so when you knew that this poem was placed behind the poem called <b>peg</b> (yes, it is what you’re thinking.) here, time is passing through the bodies, which, in turn, defines time.  

in the author’s note, strategically prefaced this collection, Bernard stated that <b>Surge</b> is informed by their archival research for the New Cross Fire of 1981, where the UK state treated the death of thirteen Black teenagers with silence. 

consider the end of the poem, excerpted from the BBC Newsnight, July 12 2017, then: 

```
james o’brien: Do you understand why the authorities have not been able to
confirm that definitively to you?

nazanin aklani: Yes, because they let them burn for too long. You know, James,
what’s more horrendous than getting burned alive? You know, you ask yourself is
there anything worse? And I’m afraid there is, you know. Having no remains.
```

